'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH INITSCRIPT 5 "July 10, 2003" "" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
initscript \- script that executes inittab commands.
.SH SYNOPSIS
/bin/sh /etc/initscript id runlevels action process
.SH DESCRIPTION
When the shell script \fI/etc/initscript\fP is present, \fBinit\fP
will use it to execute the commands from \fIinittab\fP.
This script can be used to set things like \fBulimit\fP and
\fBumask\fP default values for every process.
.SH EXAMPLES
This is a sample initscript, which might be installed on your
system as \fI/etc/initscript.sample\fP.
.RS
.sp
.nf
.ne 7

#
# initscript   Executed by init(8) for every program it
#              wants to spawn like this:
#
#              /bin/sh /etc/initscript <id> <level> <action> <process>
#

  # Set umask to safe level, and enable core dumps.
  umask 022
  ulimit -c 2097151
  PATH=/bin:/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin
  export PATH

  # Increase the hard file descriptor limit for all processes
  # to 8192.  The soft limit is still 1024, but any unprivileged
  # process can increase its soft limit up to the hard limit
  # with "ulimit -Sn xxx" (needs a 2.2.13 or later Linux kernel).
  ulimit -Hn 8192

  # Execute the program.
  eval exec "$4"

.sp
.RE
.SH NOTES
This script is not meant as startup script for daemons or somesuch.
It has nothing to do with a \fIrc.local\fP style script. It's just
a handler for things executed from \fB/etc/inittab\fP. Experimenting
with this can make your system un(re)bootable.
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/inittab,
/etc/initscript.
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg ,<miquels@cistron.nl>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
init(8), inittab(5).
