'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.\"{{{}}}
.\"{{{  Title
.TH MESG 1 "Feb 26, 2001" "" "Linux User's Manual"
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Name
.SH NAME
mesg \- control write access to your terminal
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Synopsis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mesg
.RB [ y | n ]
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Description
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mesg
controls the access to your terminal by others.  It's typically used to
allow or disallow other users to write to your terminal (see \fBwrite\fP(1)).
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Options
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fBy\fP
Allow write access to your terminal.
.IP \fBn\fP
Disallow write access to your terminal.
.PP
If no option is given, \fBmesg\fP prints out the current access state of your
terminal.
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Notes
.SH NOTES
\fBMesg\fP assumes that its standard input is connected to your
terminal. That also means that if you are logged in multiple times,
you can get/set the mesg status of other sessions by using redirection.
For example "mesg n < /dev/pts/46".
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg (miquels@cistron.nl)
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  See also
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR talk (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR wall (1)
.\"}}}
