'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2004 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH MOUNTPOINT 1 "Mar 15, 2004" "" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
mountpoint \- see if a directory is a mountpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /bin/mountpoint
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.I /path/to/directory
.br
.B /bin/mountpoint
.RB \-x
.I /dev/device
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMountpoint\fP checks if the directory is a mountpoint.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-q\fP
Be quiet - don't print anything.
.IP \fB\-d\fP
Print major/minor device number of the filesystem on stdout.
.IP \fB\-x\fP
Print major/minor device number of the blockdevice on stdout.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero if the directory is a mountpoint, non-zero if not.
.SH NOTES
Symbolic links are not followed, except when the \fB-x\fP option is
used. To force following symlinks, add a trailing slash to the
path of the directory.
.PP
The name of the command is misleading when the -x option is used,
but the option is useful for comparing if a directory and a device
match up, and there is no other command that can print the info easily.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stat (1)
